How K8s docs handle third party and dual sourced content (#20660)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2020-05-xx-third-party-dual-sourced-content.md

---
title: "How Docs Handle Third Party and Dual Sourced Content"
date: 2020-05-xx
slug: third-party-dual-sourced
url: /blog/2020/05/third-party-dual-sourced-content
---

> **Author:** Zach Corleissen | [GitHub](https://github.com/zacharysarah/) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/zachorsarah)

Reviewer: I expected to see:
```suggestion
**Author:** Zach Corleissen, Cloud Native Computinf Foundation
```

Author: I'll incorporate the idea but not the spelling error. 😆

Reviewer: D'oh!

*Editor's note: Zach is one of the chairs for the Kubernetes documentation special interest group (SIG Docs).*

Late last summer, SIG Docs started a community conversation about third party content in Kubernetes docs. This conversation became a [Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/1327) (KEP) and, after five months for review and comment, SIG Architecture approved the KEP as a [content guide](/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/) for Kubernetes docs.

Here's how Kubernetes docs handle third party content now:

> Links to active content in the Kubernetes project (projects in the kubernetes and kubernetes-sigs GitHub orgs) are always allowed.
>
> Kubernetes requires some third party content to function. Examples include container runtimes (containerd, CRI-O, Docker), networking policy (CNI plugins), Ingress controllers, and logging.
>
> Docs can link to third-party open source software (OSS) outside the Kubernetes project if it’s necessary for Kubernetes to function.

These common-sense guidelines make sure that Kubernetes docs document Kubernetes.

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: common sense?
nit: These common sense guidelines make sure that Kubernetes docs [fairly|wholly|fully] document Kubernetes.

## Keeping the docs focused

Our goal is for Kubernetes docs to be a trustworthy guide to Kubernetes features. To achieve this goal, SIG Docs is [tracking third party content](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/20232) and removing any third party content that isn't: 

- in-project; **and**

> - required for Kubernetes to function.

Reviewer 2: nit: This list construction may be confusing. Remove if (instead of isn't)?
outside of project
in project or outside of project, but not required for Kubernetes ...

Author: @kbhawkey The condition is `in-project && required-to-function`, so the formulation is correct. I do agree that the construction is more confusing than prose.

### Re-homing content

> Some content will be removed that readers may find helpful. To make sure readers have continous access to information, we're giving stakeholders untilthe [1.19 release deadline for docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/tree/master/releases/release-1.19), **July 9th, 2020** to re-home any content slated for removal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some content will be removed that readers may find helpful. To make sure readers have continous access to information, we're giving stakeholders until the [1.19 release deadline for docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/tree/master/releases/release-1.19), **July 9th, 2020** to re-home any content slated for removal.
```

Author: > Should "third party" actually be "third-party"

Either way is valid in this instance.

> Either way, it's used in both its forms

...as long as it's consistent. 🤦 Good catch!

Over the next few months you'll see less third party content in the docs as contributors open PRs to remove content.

## Background

Over time, SIG Docs observed increasing vendor content in the docs. Some content took the form of vendor-specific implementations that aren't required for Kubernetes to function in-project. Other content was thinly-disguised advertising with minimal to no feature content. Some vendor content was new; other content had been in the docs for years. It became clear that the docs needed clear, well-bounded guidelines for what kind of third party content is and isn't allowed. The [content guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/content-guide/) emerged from an extensive period for review and comment from the community.

Docs work best when they're accurate, helpful, trustworthy, and remain focused on features. In our experience, vendor content dilutes trust and accuracy. 

Put simply: feature docs aren't a place for vendors to advertise their products. Our content policy keeps the docs focused on helping developers and cluster admins, not on marketing.

## Ways to contribute

> We're tracking third-party content in an [issue in the website repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/issues/20232). If you see third party content that's out of project and isn't required for Kubernetes to function, please comment on the tracking issue. 

Reviewer 2: nit: ... an issue in the Kubernetes website repository?

Reviewer 2: Any thoughts about moving the `Ways to contribute` after the `dual-sourced` paragraph?
The `contribute` and `want to know more` seem to flow together.

Author: > Any thoughts about moving the Ways to contribute after the dual-sourced paragraph?

Good idea!
